Home > Current Students > Financial Aid > Student's Rights & Responsibilities
                  

                  		
                  		
                  Student's Rights
                  		
                  
                     			The Students at a Los Angeles Community College applying for and receiving financial
                     aid have a right to the following:
                     		
                  


                  
                  		
                  
                     			
                     Information on all financial assistance available which includes all federal, state
                        and institutional financial aid programs.
                     

                     			
                     Knowledge of all deadlines for applications of each financial aid program and for
                        any supporting documentation.
                     

                     			
                     Specific information regarding fees, tuition, and the refund policy for those student
                        who drop out of school.
                     

                     			
                     An explanation of how students are selected for receipt of financial aid and how financial
                        need is determined. This process includes a consideration of costs of tuition and
                        fees, room and board, supplies, personal and miscellaneous expenses, child care, etc.,
                        plus the student's assets, parental contribution, other financial aid (such as scholarships)
                        and so on.
                     

                     			
                     Knowledge of what resources are considered in the calculation of student need. This
                        includes all items mentioned in #4 above.
                     

                     			
                     Knowledge of how your financial aid package has been determined.

                     			
                     An explanation of the various programs awarded in the student's financial aid package.
                        If a student feels he/she has been treated unfairly, a reconsideration of the award
                        may be requested.
                     

                     			
                     An explanation of the portion of financial aid the student received that must be repaid
                        and what portion is grant aid or work study and does not need to be repaid. If the
                        aid is a loan, the student has the right to know what the interest rate is, the total
                        amount to be repaid, when the repayment is to begin and the conditions of deferment
                        and cancellation.
                     

                     			
                     Knowledge of how the Los Angeles Community College District determines whether students
                        are making "satisfactory academic progress" and what happens if they are not.
                     

                     			
                     Knowledge of what facilities are available for handicapped students.

                     		
                  
                  
                  
                  		
                  Right to Appeal
                  		
                  Students have the right to challenge or appeal their financial aid award or any other
                     decision of the Financial Aid Office pertaining to them which does not fall under
                     the jurisdiction of federal or state regulations. The right includes answers to questions,
                     explanations of policies and decisions, and requests for consideration.
                  


                  
                  		
                  
                  		
                  Student Responsibilities
                  		
                  Student must take responsibility for:

			
                  		
                  
                     			
                     Reviewing and considering all information about the Los Angeles Community College
                        District academic programs before they enroll.
                     

                     			
                     Completing all the application forms ACCURATELY AND COMPLETELY and submitting them to the right place on time. If this is not done, aid could be
                        delayed for months since errors can cause misunderstanding and misrepresentation of
                        information provided.
                     

                     			
                     Errors must be corrected before any financial aid can be received. Intentional misreporting
                        of information on application forms for federal financial aid is a violation of the
                        law and is considered a criminal offense subject to penalties under the U.S. Criminal
                        Code, and subjects the student's application to denial. Additionally, regulations
                        require that all cases of suspected fraud, emanating from misrepresentation, be reported
                        to the Office of the Inspector General.
                     

                     			
                     Promptly returning all additional documentation, verification, corrections and/or
                        new information requested by either the Financial Aid Office or the agency or agencies
                        to which an application was submitted.
                     

                     			
                     Reading and understanding all forms that the student is asked to sign. (Students should
                        keep a copy of everything they sign or submit for a signature, as it is legal and
                        binding. It is a good idea to start a special file of these documents as they are
                        important and students will need them for years to come). 
                     

                     			
                     Notifying the lender (if the student has a loan) of changes in name address or school
                        status.
                     

                     			
                     Performing the work that is agreed upon in accepting a college works study award.

                     			
                     Knowing and complying with the deadlines for application or reapplication for aid.

                     			
                     Knowing and complying with the Los Angeles Community College District's refund policy.

                     			
                     Repaying financial aid funds if it is determined that the student was ineligible to
                        receive the funds.
                     

                     		
                  
                  		
